[MRG] polish text (#10)
dib-lab/2020-workflows-paper: content/06.data-resource-management.md

Workflow systems, by virtue of automating many of the time-intensive project management steps traditionally required for data-intensive biology, can increase our capacity for data analysis.
However, conducting biological analyses at this scale requires a coordinated approach to data and computational resource management.
Below, we provide recommendations for data acquisition, management, and quality control that have become especially important as the scale of data has increased.

### Managing large-scale datasets

> Experimental design, finding or generating data, and quality control cannot yet be automated but are quintessential parts of data intensive biology.

Reviewer: love it

This metadata allows you to keep track of your samples, to control for batch effects that may arise from unintended batching during sampling or experimental procedures and makes the data you collect reusable for future applications and analysis by yourself and others.
Wherever possible, follow the standard guidelines for formatting data for scientific computing to limit downstream processing and simplify analyses requiring these metadata (see: [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510]).

### Getting started with sequencing data

#### Protect valuable data

> Other thanthe workflow itself, raw data are the most important files associated with a workflow as they cannot regenerated if accidentally altered or deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other than the workflow itself, raw data are the most important files associated with a workflow as they cannot regenerated if accidentally altered or deleted.
```

> Ongoing projects such as the NIH Common Fund Data Ecosystem aim to develop a data portal to make NIH Common Fund data, including biomedical sequencing data, more findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR).

Reviewer: just a thought that we should probably talk about FAIR principles much more than we do...

In most cases, you'll still need to transfer some data - either downloading raw data or transferring important intermediate and results files for backup and sharing (or both).
Transferring compressed files (gzip, bzip2, BAM/CRAM, etc.) can improve transfer speed and save space, and checksums can be used to to ensure file integrity after transfer (see **Figure @fig:checksum**). 

> ![**Use Checksums to ensure file integrity** Checksum programs (e.g. md5, sha256) encode file size in a single value known as a "checksum". For any file, this value will be identical across platforms when calculated using the same checksum program. When transferring files, calculate the value of the checksum prior to transfer, and then again after transfer. If the value is not identical, there was an error introduced during transfer (e.g. file truncation, etc). A checksum is often provided alongside publicly available files. Tools like Rsync and Rclone that automate file transfers use checksums internally to verify that files were transferred properly [@doi:10.1111/2041-210X.12550]. Some GUI file transfer tools (e.g. cyberduck) also assess checksums when they are provided [@url:https://cyberduck.io/].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![**Use Checksums to ensure file integrity** Checksum programs (e.g. md5, sha256) encode file size in a single value known as a "checksum". For any file, this value will be identical across platforms when calculated using the same checksum program. When transferring files, calculate the value of the checksum prior to transfer, and then again after transfer. If the value is not identical, there was an error introduced during transfer (e.g. file truncation, etc). Checksums are often provided alongside publicly available files, so that you can verify proper download. Tools like Rsync and Rclone that automate file transfers use checksums internally to verify that files were transferred properly, and some GUI file transfer tools (e.g. cyberduck) can assess checksums when they are provided [@doi:10.1111/2041-210X.12550, @url:https://cyberduck.io/].
```

](images/checksum.svg){#fig:checksum height=2.5in}

> #### Perform quality control at every step

Reviewer: YES
